# Reader

This chapter is for those who want to use `Nebula Graph` query language.

## Placeholder Identifiers and Values

The query language of **Nebula Graph**, i.e. the nGQL, refers to the following standards in design:

- NotationtakenfromISO/IEC10646
- NotationprovidedinISO/IEC39075
- ISO/IEC JTC 1 N 14279

In template code, any token that is not a keyword, a literal value, or punctuation is a placeholder identifier or a placeholder value.

Example:

```bash
INSERT VERTEX <tag_name> [, <tag_name>, ...] (prop_name_list[, prop_name_list])
     {VALUES | VALUE} vid: (prop_value_list[, prop_value_list])

prop_name_list:
  [prop_name [, prop_name] ...]

prop_value_list:
  [prop_value [, prop_value] ...]
```

The user-defined identifiers are tag_name, prop_name_list and prop_value_list.

- Choices

    The vertical bar `|` is used to separate the choices, when the syntax requires that the user choose one out of a set of values. Example:  Either the keyword TAG or EDGE is to be used.

    Template:

    ```bash
    ALTER TAG | EDGE <tag_name> | <edge_name>
    <alter_definition> [, alter_definition] ...]
    [ttl_definition [, ttl_definition] ... ]

    alter_definition:
    | ADD    (prop_name data_type)
    | DROP   (prop_name)
    | CHANGE (prop_name data_type)

    ttl_definition:
    TTL_DURATION = ttl_duration, TTL_COL = prop_name
    ```

    Possible actual values:

    ```bash
    ALTER TAG player ADD (id int, name string)
    ```

- Optional content

    Square brackets are used to enclose a portion that is optional.  Options can be nested. Square brackets themselves are rarely used as part of the nGQL language itself.

    Example: In the CREATE SPACE statement, partition_num is optional. If used, partition_num is to be followed by a value.

    Sometimes, options are nested, which means that an inner option can only be used if the outer option is used:

    ```ngql
    CREATE SPACE [IF NOT EXISTS] <space_name>
    [(partition_num = <part_num>, replica_factor = <raft_copy>)]
    ```

    means that ASC or DESC may be used if and only if \<expression> is specified first.

- Repeated zero or more times

    In template code, it is sometimes desirable to show that a term is repeated an arbitrary number of times. In the template code, if `...` immediately follows option brackets, then the bracketed term can be repeated zero or more times.
