# Frequently Asked Questions

Common questions about **Nebula Graph** and more.

- [Frequently Asked Questions](#frequently-asked-questions)
  - [Trouble Shooting](#trouble-shooting)
    - [graphd Config File Doesn't Register to Meta Server](#graphd-config-file-doesnt-register-to-meta-server)
    - [Errors Thrown When Inserting Data After Tag or Edge is Created](#errors-thrown-when-inserting-data-after-tag-or-edge-is-created)
    - [Errors Thrown When Executing Command in Docker](#errors-thrown-when-executing-command-in-docker)
    - [How to Check Logs](#how-to-check-logs)
    - [How to Check Configs](#how-to-check-configs)
    - [How to Check Runtime Configs](#how-to-check-runtime-configs)
    - [Connection Refused](#connection-refused)
    - [Process Crash](#process-crash)
    - [Could not create logging file:... Too many open files](#could-not-create-logging-file-too-many-open-files)
    - [Storaged Service Cannot Start Normally](#storaged-service-cannot-start-normally)
    - [How to Check Nebula Graph Version](#how-to-check-nebula-graph-version)
    - [Modifying the Configuration File Does not Take Effect](#modifying-the-configuration-file-does-not-take-effect)
    - [Modify RocksDB block cache](#modify-rocksdb-block-cache)
  - [General Information](#general-information)
    - [Explanations on the Time Return in Queries](#explanations-on-the-time-return-in-queries)

## Trouble Shooting

Trouble Shooting session lists the common operation errors in **Nebula Graph**.

### graphd Config File Doesn't Register to Meta Server

When starting **Nebula Graph** services with the `nebula.service` script, `graphd`, `metad` and `storaged` processes start too fast to make the graphd config file registered into the meta server. The same problem may also occur when restarting.

If you are using the beta version, start the metad service first, then the storaged and graphd to avoid such problem. We will resolve this problem in the next release.

Start metad first:

```bash
nebula> scripts/nebula.service start metad
[INFO] Starting nebula-metad...
[INFO] Done
```

Then start storaged and graphd

```bash
nebula> scripts/nebula.service start storaged
[INFO] Starting nebula-storaged...
[INFO] Done

nebula> scripts/nebula.service start graphd
[INFO] Starting nebula-graphd...
[INFO] Done
```

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### Errors Thrown When Inserting Data After Tag or Edge is Created

This is likely caused by setting the `heartbeat_interval_secs` value to fetch data from the meta server. Conduct the following steps to resolve:

If meta has registered, check `heartbeat_interval_secs` value in console with the following command.

```ngql
nebula> GET CONFIGS storage:heartbeat_interval_secs
nebula> GET CONFIGS graph:heartbeat_interval_secs
```

If the value is large, change it to 1s with the following command.

```ngql
nebula> UPDATE CONFIGS storage:heartbeat_interval_secs=1
nebula> UPDATE CONFIGS graph:heartbeat_interval_secs=1
```

> Note the changes take effect in the next period.

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### Errors Thrown When Executing Command in Docker

This is likely caused by the inconsistency between the docker IP and the default listening address (172.17.0.2). Thus we need to change the the latter.

1. First run `ifconfig` in container to check your container IP, here we assume your IP is 172.17.0.3.
2. In directory `/usr/local/nebula/etc`, check the config locations of all the IP addresses with the command `grep "172.17.0.2" . -r`.
3. Change all the IPs you find in step 2 to your container IP 172.17.0.3.
4. Restart all the services.

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### How to Check Logs

Logs are stored under `/usr/local/nebula/logs/` by default.

For details of logs, please refer to [logs](../../3.build-develop-and-administration/3.deploy-and-administrations/server-administration/configuration-statements/log.md).

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### How to Check Configs

Configuration files are stored under `/usr/local/nebula/etc/` by default.

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### How to Check Runtime Configs

In Nebula console, run

```ngql
nebula> SHOW CONFIGS;
```

For configuration details, please see [here](../../3.build-develop-and-administration/3.deploy-and-administrations/server-administration/configuration-statements/configs-syntax.md).

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### Connection Refused

```txt
E1121 04:49:34.563858   256 GraphClient.cpp:54] Thrift rpc call failed: AsyncSocketException: connect failed, type = Socket not open, errno = 111 (Connection refused): Connection refused
```

Check service status by

```bash
$ /usr/local/nebula/scripts/nebula.service status all
```

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### Process Crash

1. Check disk space `df -h`.
1. Check memory usage `free -h`.

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### Could not create logging file:... Too many open files

1. Check your disk space `df -h`
1. Check log directory `/usr/local/nebula/logs/`
1. reset your max open files by `ulimit -n 65536`

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### Storaged Service Cannot Start Normally

When the same host is used for single host or cluster test, the storaged service cannot start normally. The listening port of the storaged service is red in the console.

Check the logs of the storaged service. If you find the "wrong cluster" error message, the possible cause is that the cluster id generated by **Nebula Graph** during the single host test and the cluster test are inconsistent. You need to delete the cluster.id file and the data directory and restart the service.

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### How to Check Nebula Graph Version

Use the command `curl http://ip:port/status` to obtain the git_info_sha, the commitID of the binary package.

### Modifying the Configuration File Does not Take Effect

**Nebula Graph** uses the following two methods obtaining configurations:

1. From the configuration files (You need to modify the files then restart the services);
2. From the Meta. Set via CLI and persists in Meta service. Please refer to the [Configs Syntax](../../3.build-develop-and-administration/3.deploy-and-administrations/server-administration/configuration-statements/configs-syntax.md) for details.

Modifying the configuration file does not take effect because **Nebula Graph** gets configuration in the second method (from meta) by default. If you want to use the first way, please add the `--local_config=true` option in flag files `metad.conf`, `storaged.conf`, `graphd.conf` (flag files directory is `/home/user/nebula/build/install/etc`) respectively.

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

### Modify RocksDB block cache

Modify the storage layer's configuration file `storaged.conf` (the directory is `/home/user/nebula/build/install/etc`, yours maybe different) and restart the service. For example:

```bash
# Change rocksdb_block_cache to 1024
--rocksdb_block_cache = 1024
```

Use command `curl 127.0.0.1:12114/get_flags | grep rocksdb_block_cache` to confirm your modification.

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)

## General Information

General Information lists the conceptual questions about **Nebula Graph**.

### Explanations on the Time Return in Queries

```ngql
nebula> GO FROM 101 OVER follow
===============
| follow._dst |
===============
| 100         |
---------------
| 102         |
---------------
| 125         |
---------------
Got 3 rows (Time spent: 7431/10406 us)
```

Taking the above query as an example, the number `7431` in Time spent is the time spent by the database itself, that is, the time it takes for the query engine to receive a query from the console, fetch the data from the storage and perform a series of calculation ; the number `10406` is the time spent from the client's perspective, that is, the time it takes for the console from sending a request and receiving a response to displaying the result on the screen.

[[↑] Back to top](#frequently-asked-questions)
